---
templateKey: BlogPost
title: Why I Created This Page
date: 2019-10-30T19:29:43.803Z
description: 'In short, to get a job.'
featuredPost: true
featuredImage: /img/blog-jumbotron.jpg
tags:
  - jobs
  - why
  - page
  - interview
---
**<span dir="ltr">Background</span>**

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">I graduated last year 2018, when I decided to take a
break. As a result I was in West Vancouver for about a year with my
family. I played some games and enjoyed my life there and then I decided
to look for a job after a couple of months of relaxation. However,
getting a job is more difficult than my expectation.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">As a problem solver, I analysed the difficulties and
determined to solve the problem of how to get a job.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">To make this seemingly complicated problem easier to
understand, I break the problem into two parts. The first part is
focusing on how to get more interviews. The second part is on how to
pass the interview. By following my solution, you will see the reason of
creating such a page.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

**<span dir="ltr">Part 1. How to get more interviews</span>**

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">The first problem I am facing is that I rarely get
interview appointments. I sent hundreds of resumes but rarely get
contacted. The very limited amount of feedback gives me an indication
that local candidates are more welcomed and Toronto city has more
opportunities. For example, I got one interview to US and the traveling
cost was about 1000 usd, if the company would not pay the fee then I was
less likely to take the opportunity. On another example, I got an
invitation to an interview from Toronto, but as soon as the hiring
manager realized my location, the appointment was canceled. Thus I moved
to the city of Toronto just a few months ago and this is just my first
step of solving the problem.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">Moving to the right location is important as it reduces
the geometry obstruction to its minimum but it barely increase my
chances of getting interviews. There must be another factor that
explains why I got very little interviews. I was reminded that once I
was told that they would rather give me the position of quality
assurance instead, although I was applying for the position of software
developer because I was more interested in being a developer. Looking
into my resume, I realized that I do not have any experience related to
my applied position and that could be a fatal cause. To solve this
concern, I need to make a decision on what specific role I prefer the
most before I manage to gain experience on that role.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">After researching, I chose the web related roles as my
primary targets. They are frontend, backend, and full-stack positions.
The reason is that I can find more web related positions and it requires
less entry barrier for candidates. The next step is to gain me more
experience on that field, and that is the first reason why I created
this web page. If you are interested, I have written another post about
my first web app written with Vue ---- just search with keyword ‘vue’ on
my blog page and you will see it. By the way, this page is open-sourced
and you can find it on my GitHub page. As my first react app, this page
is not that perfect, but it is not that bad to fulfill my another
purpose of creating such a page that I will explain next.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">A research lead me to the fact that most HR will google
the candidate name before making decision on sending interview just like
how I was googling about how HR make decision on interviewing
candidates. The obvious conclusion I can draw here is that people want
to know more about you. And this is the second reason of making this
page. If people cannot find any information about you, what will happen?
There is no certain answer, but most likely people will get distant from
you and make negative assumptions about you. That instinct is from
natural selection that people get away from unknown phenomenons have
higher chance to survive. There is a Chinese meme to describe this, ‘no
zuo no die’. One interesting story I saw was that one’s manager fired
him because he did not have a personal Facebook account. This reminds me
that my Facebook account is basically empty. I need some blog pages and
why not just build one myself. Building my own page distinguishes me
from others and help me to avoid the trap of the so called ‘statistical
discrimination’.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">**Part 2. How to pass an interview**</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">After reading the part 1, you might be curious why I
want to get more interviews. Getting more interviews meaning that I have
a higher chance of getting a desired position when the probability of
passing an interview is unchanged. While this is apparent and trivial
there is another more important reason behind the scene that gaining
more interviews means higher chance of passing an interview for
me.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">Learning from failure is just one of my little common
skills like many others do. I still remember many details of the first
interview I’ve got. I made every possible mistake that you can imagine
or read from something like ‘top ten mistakes you should never make on a
job interview’, on my first job interview as a newbie. Actually, I made
11 of those mistakes so I might write another article on ‘top 11
mistakes in a job interview’. Anyway, I learned from those mistakes and
recognized some wrong behaviors to improve my performance in my next
interviews. So getting more interviews is connected to passing an
interview.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">However, I do have some other concerns in an interview.
I felt nervous in a real interview. I always treat any interview
opportunity as my last interview. The fact that I am getting very little
interview chance force me to treasure any opportunity I get. The more
attention I pay to it, the more anxious I feel. Imagine the last dinner
of a prisoner under sentence of death, that is how I feel when waiting
in the lobby for my interviewer. The feeling restrict my capability. The
only cure is to become experienced in interviewing. This indicates that
I need more interviews, and creating a web page might get me the
chances.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">First impression matters. It is very hard to understand
a candidate’s true capability from a few hours of an interview, but it
is relatively easy to give a judgement on a candidate. The interview is
short and this means that the first impression takes a higher percentage
of impact on judgment than usual. If the interviewer search and find
your page from the internet before the interview, he might change his
first impression on you. Even though he doesn't, providing the judge
more information with a web page might have a considerable impact on the
result. This is the third reason explains why I made this page.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">How about the coding part for software developer? Here I
want to quote the famous saying from Donald Knuth,</span>

> <span dir="ltr">“**Premature** optimization is the **root** of all
> **evil**”.</span>

<span dir="ltr">Same thing happens for this question that I am solving.
Actually, before my analysis of this problem, I went into some coding
websites like leetcode, hackerrank just to practice my coding skills. I
did learn some fancy data structures like disjoint-set, sparse-table,
binary-indexed-tree, but the problem is that I barely have any
interview. Why the bother of coding if I don’t even know what is in the
interview. The keyword here is pattern recognition. I believe any test
related activities like exams and interviews, come with patterns. For
example, there is the ielts writing test that requires writing with
certain topic and word count limit for ESL students. By reading many
ielts writing examples, I predicted some topics and created my own
unique writing template to help me pass the test. That’s to say my
English writing is poor, sh. BTW, the action of filling words into
template in ielts test makes me think of the inversion of control I
read. By analogy, to solve the problem of passing an interview, I need
to first observe the pattern of interviewing process and then understand
what is required before spending time on practicing.</span>

<span dir="ltr"></span>

**<span dir="ltr">Conclusion</span>**

<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">The short explanation of the motivation of getting such a page is to find
a job. Besides looking for a job, this page also has some other meanings
to me. Suppose this world is a game, who is the one to define the
rules for the game? I believe it is the ones with more impact on the
world to define the rules. Steve Jobs had a great impact on the world,
so he defined the beauty of his dressing code and had many followers.
One lesson I learnt from my university is that writing or communication
skills are sometimes more important than any other skills like
programming. That is obvious, as writing accounts for 60% of the scores
while presentation accounts for another 40% of the scores for the final
capstone project course for ECE students. And that communication skills
are crucial to have an impact on the world. The big success of Theranos
is the proof. So this is why I created this page, to have an
impact.</span>

<div style='width:100%;margin:auto;text-align:center;'>
<div class='figureImage' style="display:inline-block;width:40%;" > <img src="/img/why-i-created-this-page-image1.png"/> </div>
<div class='figureImage' style="display:inline-block;width:40%;" > <img src="/img/why-i-created-this-page-image2.png"/> </div>
</div>


<span dir="ltr"></span>

<span dir="ltr">Here is the question of today, have I gotten my job?</span>

<span dir="ltr">Well, we’ll see. For now, happy writing.</span>
